We're going to take a closer look at blue-green deployment strategy.
Not because it's the best,
but because it sits right in the middle between easiest and hardest to implement.
Also, this deployment strategy will give us a chance to look at
some universal truths about deployment strategies in general.
The key mechanism in blue-green deployment is known as the router.
The router's job is to direct traffic between green and blue production environments.
Ideally, the router could make the switch pretty fast.
That speed is nice when we're going from old version to new version,
but it's essential when there's an issue and we need to
roll back from new version two old version again.
In blue-green there are several popular routers that we could choose from.
One is the load balancer,
it lets you switch from front-end and back-end almost instantly,
it's the ideal router in most cases.
Another possible router is your Content Delivery Network or CDN.
CDNs offer a way to switch their source files often.
Again, this is almost an instant switch for front end web apps.
Of course, we could use DNS to make the switch.
This is a common router because it's very easy,
but it's a very slow process because of DNS propagation and long TTLs.
You could even use your own application to route traffic,
although this thing adds tremendous technical debt.
The jobs in your CI/CD pipeline are
greatly influenced by the deployment strategy you choose.
Blue-green deployment strategy has a few jobs
that perhaps others see CI/CD pipelines wouldn't have.
For example, after deployment we would have
an automated smoke test to validate
the deployment before switching the router and promoting to production.
Also, we might have another smoke test like a sanity check after the switch,
rollbacks would be ready at every stage to undo our changes if needed.
We would also be ready to clean up old infrastructure if everything is successful.
I added a list of common jobs in the text below the video,
if you'd like to see the jobs and their descriptions.